## Overview

This is the source code that I used to run a set experiments in predicting results for football matches in the English Premier League over the 2016/17 season using simple statistics.

## Dependencies

* Mac or Linux - Tested on a Mac, so Linux will probably be okay but for Windows there's a good chance of something not working.
* Python 3.6 - I ran things with Python 3.6, so anything newer than that should be fine.
* Various libs - pip install -r require.txt
  
## Contents

`./predictOmatic.py` - demo program for predicting match results using Goal Difference and independently derived Home and Away models.

`./get_results_from_bbc.py` - page scrapes results from the BBC sports website and dumps in a SQLite DB in a format suitable for use by libraries and programs here.

`./lib/ActualResultsLib.py` - library for interacting with SQLite files that contain the results, e.g. the one generated by `get_results_from_bbc.py`

`/lib/FeatureLib.py` - library for working with Features and their models.

`/lib/StatsLib.py` - library for generating simple statistics from match results.

`./tests/algorithm_test_results` location under which test output SQLite DB's are generated, one per test case.

`tests/fixture` - sqlite databases constaining fixture test data for the season.

`tests/tests_*_unit.py` - unit tests for corresponding libraries in `lib`

 `tests/test_predictor_algorithms.py` - experiments.

  
  
  
## How to run

`predictOmatic.py` and `get_results_from_bbc.py` should just work assuming dependencies are present.

The tests need the `lib` directory to be added before invoking the unit testing framework.

From the project's root directory, something similar to `PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/lib; python -m unittest tests/test*.py ` should work.


## Documentation

To figure out how to use the libraries have a look at their unit tests, failing that I'm afraid it's time to _Use the Source Luke_ ...

## More info

There will be a blog post on this shortly which will be found here.

https://taskudo.info/blog/